# Vehicle_Insurance_Fraud_Detection_Final_Project

Contributors:

- Christine Gendron
- Mitchel Diaz
- Steven Dookhantie

## Purpose

Vehicle Insurance Fraud is an expensive, increasingly common, and avoidable problem for insurers. Sophisticated fraud detection processes will be essential to the entire Financial Services Industry moving forward. That’s why this project seeks to use machine learning techniques to understand and predict fraud.

## Questions to Answer

- Can we accurately predict whether an insurance claim is fraudulent?
- Which features are correlated with higher likelihood of fraud?

### Our Data

Our dataset was generated by Angoss KnowledgeSEEKER, a provider of systems for predictive analytics, and found on Kaggle.

This set features over 15,000 claim samples with 33 columns, including information on:

- Demographics of claimant
- Details on the vehicle in question
- Information about the claimants’ policies.
- Whether fraud was detected

https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/khusheekapoor/vehicle-insurance-fraud-detection

### Pre-Processing the Data and Feature Selection

- We summarized the dataset using describe(), and identified the column data types using the dtypes attribute.

- Some unnecessary columns were dropped, including Week of Month, Deductible, AddressChange-Claim, and RepNumber.

- We found missing values, and used KNNImputer to impute them.

- The FraudFound column is being used as our target variable, since this is the value we're attempting to predict.

### Train_Test_Split

Data is being split into training and testing sets by importing the train_test_split function from sklearn.model_selection, and passing in our target, our features, and a random_state value of 42. These sets are being given the variable names: X_train, X_test, y_train, and y_test.

### Explanation of Model Choice

Our dependent variable (FraudFound) is binary- either fraud was found, or it was not. Logistic Regression is the most efficient way of predicting this type of outcome.

### Our Communication Protocols

We will communicate through Slack messages and on twice-weekly zoom meetings.
